This amphora has two sides: one depicting Menelaus taking Helen from Troy, and the other depicting Herakles's twelfth and final labor. This post focuses on the latter.

At the time of his twelfth labor, Herakles had already completed eleven labors for King Eurystheus, though he was only bound for ten. How could this be so? As it happens, the monarch refused to acknowledge two of the hero's labors: the first being that of the slaying of the hydra, for he had the help of his charioteer; and the the second being that of the cleaning of the Augean stables, since he accepted payment for the deed (Bibliotheca 2.11). Thus, he was compelled for an additional two labors, the eleventh being the retrieval of the Golden Apples of the Hesperides.

To complete this final labor, Herakles enters the underworld at Taenarus (Heracles 23-25), at the tip of the middle peninsula at the south of Peloponnes (Metamorphoses, Bk. X. 13). He is assisted in the descent by his initiation into the Eleusinian Mysteries (Bibliotheca 2.12), and Athena saves him from "the sheer-falling waters of Styx" (Iliad 8.369). Once within the depths, Herakles is assailed by spirits, including that of Meleager, according to Epinicians (Ode 5, 75) and that of the Gorgon who Hermes assures him is merely a phantom.

To complete the labor, Herakles arrives at the court of Hades, and petitions the release of the guardian hound Cerberus, second born of Echidna (Theogony 310). Hades agrees, on the condition that Herakles take up no arms against the beast. He therefore "persuades" the creature to come along by wrapping its heads within his lion-skin cloak (said by some to be that of the Nemean lion, younger brother of the hound (Theogony 328-331). Along the way, he also rescues Theseus, who had been damned to stay within for helping Pirithous to court Persephone, wife of Hades (Bibliotheca 2.12).
Bonus:

An alternate telling of the myth, espoused by Pausanias and Plutarch, states that instead of Hades and the underworld, Herakles must travel to the court of the king of the Molossians. There, he finds both Theseus (who attempted to steal Core [a homonym of Kore, or Persephone] [Theseus 35.1]) and the "hound of Hades", so called "because any one bitten was bound to die of the poison at once" (Description of Greece 3.25). Two interesting marks in favor of this theory are that there is no underground passage at Taenarus, and in the translation by Frazer (1921), Herakles is said to be bitten by the "dragon in its tail" (Bibliotheca 2.12).

[Attachment: Black-figure Belly Amphora with the Reclamation of Helen and Herakles and Kerberos (Side Detail), Walters Art Museum <http://art.thewalters.org/detail/30822/black-figure-belly-amphora-with-the-reclamation-of-helen-and-herakles-and-kerberos/>]
